# sAMPC: Stacked Antimicrobial Peptide Classifier
sAMPC is an ensemble model based on the feature sets described in the AMPeP and MACREL papers.

## Antimicrobial Peptides
Antimicrobial Peptides (AMPs) are short peptide chains, usually 10 to 60 amino acids in length. AMPs can originate from plants, mammals, amphibians, insects, fungi, and bacteria Huan et al. (2020). Antimicrobial peptides are non-enzymatic, i.e. their mechanism of action is usually physical. Most AMPs have a positive charge on them (cationic nature) which allows them to disrupt bacterial membranes that are usually negatively charged or anionic in nature causing the cytoplasmic components to leak out of the cell Zhang et al. (2021), Benfield and Henriques (2020), Kumar et al. (2018).

Antimicrobial peptides are not highly conserved, database search tools like BLASTp often fail to find novel AMPs. Computational methods, specifically various machine learning algorithms have been used to identify new AMPs. Even though AMPs do not have a conserved amino acid sequence, they do still exhibit physicochemical properties that are characteristic to them. Various prediction tools use these properties to distinguish between AMPs and Non-AMPs. In 2009, CAMP was set up with multiple prediction tools, a Random Forest, a Support Vector Machine and a Discriminant Analysis model that were trained on 64 physicochemical features Thomas et al. (2009). In 2018, AMPeP was made public, it is a Random Forest Algorithm that was trained on 105 features and has the highest Matthew’s Correlation Coefficient to date making it one of the top performing AMP prediction algorithms, the exact features will be discussed later as the AMPeP features have been used here Bhadra et al. (2018). DeepAMPeP30 is a neural network trained to predict short AMPs (<=30). In 2020, the MACREL pipeline was made available and had one of the highest precision benchmarked Santos-Júnior et al. (2020). The classifier in the MACREL pipeline was trained on 22 features, two being repurposed from AMPeP with 3 being novel. While the MACREL classifier had a high precision, it did come at the cost of recall (how many AMPs it was able to detect). 
